# Super-Mario-Bros-PPO-Stable-baselines
Creating a PPO agent to solve the first level of Super Mario Bros using stable baselines 3

## Introduction
I'm a master student in Computer science and history in the faculty of arts at Lausanne University. For one of my project I decided to try and complete the first level of Super Mario Bros using the PPO implementation from [Stable Baselines 3 library](https://stable-baselines3.readthedocs.io/en/master/modules/ppo.html). This was not an easy task as I only had one course in machine learning and had to learn reinforcement learning from scratch. I spent a lot of time watching videos, following tutorials and then I followed the [hugging face course on reinforcement learning](https://huggingface.co/learn/deep-rl-course/unit0/introduction?fw=pt) to get a basic understanding of what I was geetting myself into.
After the course, I mainly tried to replicate a succesful implementation from [Viet Nguyen](https://github.com/uvipen/Super-mario-bros-PPO-pytorch/), but was unable to, because his implementation of the PPO algorithm is slightly different than the one from stable baselines. After tweaking the parameters of the stable baselines  ppo implementation as well as the learning rate I realized it had been a waste of time and the results supported that conclusion. Then I came across a youtube video from [ClarityCoders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PxoG0A2QoFs). In this video I realized he changed almost none of the parameters and managed to finished the first level and achieved an average rewards around 3000. 
One of the most important things he did was in the preprocessing of the environement, he set a maxstep per episode of 20000, according to his experience in solving games with RL he noticed it had a high impact on performance. After trying to replicate his implementation, I manageed to reach an average reward of 20000 wich was higher than all my previous attempts and was better than another Master thesis work I also inspired myself from.[^1] My PPO agent is not yet able to compllete the first level consistently, because I couldn't replicate the number of prralel environements used by Clarity Coders. My kernel would crash, because I have not access to GPUs wich are powerful enough(16gb when 32gb would have been necessary).
Despite my first experience with reinforcement learning feeling like a paytowin game, I learned a lot and was able to achieve more than I initially though I'll be able to.

## How to use my code
Just make sure to download the requirements.txt file, then you can simply execute code in the jupyter notebook. I used this code in [Gradient Notebooks](https://www.paperspace.com/gradient/notebooks), so if you have problems of compatibilty runnning it on your machine or in colab just make a free account there and it should work. If you want how my best algorithm performs you can just change the path in the notebook.

[^1]: ZONE, Corentin. Deep Reinforcement Learning: An introduction through video games. Faculté des sciences, Université catholique de Louvain, 2022. Prom. : Van Oirbeek, Robin ; Pennisi, Andrea. (Thèse de master). Disponible en ligne : https://dial.uclouvain.be/memoire/ucl/object/thesis:38002. Consulté le 18.03.2023
